how I stay ahead of Google algorithm
updates have you ever noticed that
Google is constantly making algorithm
changes the worst part is that when they
finally roll one out they don't always
give you a ton of notice it might be
frustrating but Google's desktop market
share is roughly
85.55 worldwide and 87 of American
search engine users prefer Google over
other searches like Bing or Yahoo or
Baidu the bottom line is you simply
can't afford to ignore Google or the
many many algorithm updates that are to
come in the future it's important to
understand that Google's ranking system
actually consists of multiple algorithms
it's not just one easy to understand
system in fact there are over 200
components that factor into Google's
algorithm the next time you hear an
update has been rolled out imagine it's
an entire interconnected process of
things not just one simple lever that's
being pulled go Google's core updates
can sometimes take weeks to fully roll
out and in that time frame it's super
common to see some web pages gain or
lose position
so how can you possibly expect to adapt
how are you supposed to maintain the
same level of search traffic when the
whole algorithm is so fluid
here are a few essential tips for
staying ahead of Google's algorithm
updates so you'll never get left behind
step one set up Google Alerts tracking
every single update that Google makes
can be exhausting but you can't afford
to miss out on the big core algorithm
update with googlers you'll receive
notification directly in your inbox
whenever algorithm updates are mentioned
online
for you enough time to mentally prepare
and tweak your SEO strategy if needed
the way you set it up is that you go to
google.com alert then put in keywords
like Google algorithm and then click on
the create alert button another great
way to stay on top of algorithm changes
is to follow Google search re liaison on
Twitter it's official account
essentially does what Google Alerts does
but tracks social media mentions instead
and while we're on the subject of Google
user tools such as search console and
use Google analytics it can help you
identify unusual traffic activity as
well as random spikes or dips in
conversion major changes in either
traffic or conversions could be an
indicator that your SEO has somewhat
been affected by an algorithm change
could be positive or negative
from there you want to check out blogs
like searching your round table and
searching the land that typically covers
what's happening and I also cover them
on neilpatel.com other algorithm
analytics tools like mozcast or grum can
track daily algorithm changes giving you
the edge needed to stay ahead of other
marketers step two avoid black hat SEO
practices
it's got a spooky name for a pretty good
reason black hat SEO is a practice that
basically goes against search engine
guidelines and includes tactics like
keyword stuffing hidden texts and
cloaking and buying backlinks and using
private link networks and paid backlinks
and doorway Pages some of these
practices might just help you gain a
short-term Advantage but it won't last
long and it could even lead to a penalty
which could seriously harm your business
long-term chances of ranking high on
Google you might even get blacklisted
Google's pretty smart they can recognize
when you're up to no good instead read
through Google search Essentials there's
a ton of White House SEO practices in
there that can help you skirt any issues
penalties or other punishments step 3
optimize the user experience every
update has one overarching goal behind
it to show users the sites that they
love that provide the most helpful
information and that are most beneficial
look a bad user experience can be
disastrous for your traffic according to
HubSpot 88 of customers are less likely
to return to a site with bad ux ninety
percent of customers reported that they
stopped using an app because it
performed partly long story short if
your website isn't running well not only
will you lose your audience Google will
even make it harder for them to find you
technical issues can plague your site
things like four or four errors
redirects probability issues website
security slow load speed and overall
just confusing user Journey it shouldn't
take more than one or two seconds for
your website to load the longer your
page takes a load the worse your user
experience will be make sure you also
have a comprehensive internal linking
structure fast learning website and
quality content you can use tools like
deep crawl buzzsumo found and more to
see how your website is performing and
you can use tools like crazy act to
create a heat map that shows you where
people are clicking on your website and
where they don't and you can use this
data to improve your user experience as
well
step four keep your content fresh I used
to not really follow Google updates that
much why
because they happen so often and so
quickly that it's almost impossible for
me to fully anticipate everything that
Google will change what I did was I
started prioritizing creating
exceptional user-friendly content and
stuff that my audience actually wants to
read
that includes content refreshes doing
consistent cure research and including
it in my content and blogging frequently
about high volume search topics in my
industry remember a Google update is
designed to make the search engine
better for the user so make sure you're
focusing on the same thing step five use
tools that determine what updates are
affecting your website notice the
decline in traffic as of lately it might
not be a random fluke it might have been
an algorithm change here are two tools
that can help you identify what the heck
went wrong the first is check out Google
search console it contains a ton of
awesome resources that you can use to
diagnose common performance issues and
identify potential algorithm penalties
log into search console it's a free
Analytics tool from Google it can help
you identify mobile issues usability for
four issues it can even tell you if you
have some code that's not reading right
by their search engine and it'll tell
you what pages that need to be fixed and
what code needs to be fixed then the
other tool that you have is semr sensor
this tool breaks down what is changing
for each industry when it comes to
algorithm updates with these five
strategies you should be good to go and
ready for whatever Google throws you are
away and if you want even more help
check out my Ad Agency NP digital where
we help companies with their Google
problems and hack all their digital
marketing problems if you have any
questions leave a comment below I'm here
to answer them and help you out if you
enjoyed this video like share it tell
the people about it thank you very much